Talya, awakening of nature, good news or the joyful tidings of spring
Zeynep, precious valuable stones, piece of jewerly, jewels. Name of daughter of the prophet Hz. Muhammed (S.A.W)
Ela, an eye colour, yellow with a tinge of chestnut colour ('auburn')
Duru, clear, clean
Yaren, friend, (best) close friend
Ceren, a type of animal (Gazelle)
Ece, beautiful woman, queen
Melis, honey, honey bee
Naz, coquetry
Su, water
Berra, straightforward and/or working to receive good deeds
Ecem, my queen, very good, very beautiful
Sena, (compliment), praising. 2. Gleam of lightning
İrem, one meaning of the name is a garden in Heaven (paradise)
Azra, 1. untouched virgin or maiden girl. 2. untapped pearl. 3. untrodden sand. 4. The place Medina's other name. 5. The name given to Meryem (r.a) or Mary in biblical terms
Dilay, regarding about something with being beatiful like the moon. The full meaning of the name is not completely verified though yet.
İdil, having adopted the text or poem about rural life, about love. 2. small and poetic image. 3. sincere and pure love
Eylül, first month of autumn
İpek, silk
Nazlı, coquettish, coy; rose water
Yağmur, rain
Derin, deep; profound
Ilgın, a tree or shrub growing in the Mediterranean region or grown in the sandy soil used as a shrub and hedge plant
Havin, June night
Nilsu, nile and water, the great river of Egypt
Kayra, grace, favor, benevolence, kindness
Begüm, women ruler, Princess. Begum which is In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank
İlkin, first, firstly; first off, to begin with; at first, in the beginning, at the outset. Name could be given to a first-born child
Tuana, The first drop(s) of rain fall in (the gardens of) paradise (Heaven)
Beril, be purified, be clean, in the clear or acquitted. 2. Beryl (a type of mineral)
İlgi, relation, connection, attachment, involvement, interest, concern, affinity
Simay, Silvery moon, like silver bright moon
Pelin, sharp and fragrant smelling plant, wormwood
Beren, strong, powerful, smart, intelligent
Mira, surveyor's rod
Yazmira
Selin, (water) flowing abundantly, flowing copiously, flood, flooding, inundation, torrent, stream, deluge. 2. Grown in Central Asia, shrubs or short, plants remaining constantly green
Simge, symbol
Rana, beautiful, eye-pleasing display or A genus of anurous batrachians, including the common frogs. type genus of the Ranidae.
Şimal, north
Damla, a drop (of a liquid), drip; dribble
Melike, queen, (female) sovereign, (female) ruler
Pınar, spring (a natural fountain)
Başak, 1. ear (of grain), spike, spica. 2. crop missed by the reapers, gleanings
Özüm, loving like holding your sibling
Elçin, bunch, bouquet
Minel, the pearls that are found in Heaven (paradise)
Arzum, 'my desire' like my will, thirst, longing, yearning, wish, want, request


Top 50 boy names,

Emir, order, command, emir, prince, chief, leader, ruler, commander
Cem, 1. collection, bringing together, stockpiling (conglomeration, accumulation. hoarding. stacking). 2. Ruler, king. 3. The epithet of the Hz. Prophet Süleyman (Solomon) (A.S). 4. A nickname of İskender (the Great Alexander)
Ege, guardian (of a child), Aegean (sea). 2. West Anatolian littoral. 3. Aegean, of the Aegean
Çağan, Happy days, holiday
Sarp, very steep, precipitous. 2. hard, difficult (task)
Kerem, honor, nobleness, nobility, generous, generosity, one who does beneficial (benevolent) work
Deniz, the sea
Yağız, dark, swarthy (person), dark-skinned; brunette. 2. dark and/or chestnut (horse). 3. brave (manly young fellow)
Yiğit, brave, courageous, stouthearted, the intrepid one
Emre, lover, friend, brother
Kağan, khan, ruler
Mert, brave, manly
Görkem, splendor, magnificence, pomp
Burak, lightning
Meriç, the Meriç (maritza) river which is found in Bulgaria. 2. Last hope
Berke, stick, cane, rod and/or dagger, wedge (for splitting stone or wood)
Kutay, holy or blessed month
Tuna, abundant, plentiful, splendid. The Danube river
Baran, rain
Efe, older brother (also used in addressing a respected man a little older than the speaker), big brother. 2. brave, courageous
Onur, 1. self-respect, self-esteem, pride. Shows the values of others based on respect, honor. 2. honour, distinction
Doruk, hill, summit, peak
Bartu, one of the most oldest Türk Khan
Emirhan, emir and han
Alp, hero. brave, heroic
Arhan, superior (quality), proud minister
Bora, strong wind (preceding a rainstorm), squall
Canberk, strong, sound person
Rüzgar, wind; breeze
Derin, deep; profound
Toprak, soil, earth, ground, clay, land, country, territory
Arın, clean, pure, be purified; purify. 2. forehead. 3. face front. the mountains', hills' face
Aşkın, excessive, more than, over, beyond, your love
Çınar, broad-leafed trees, plane tree, sycamore tree
Armağan, gift, present
Derin, deep; profound
Koray, moon that rather well comes to an ember-coloured state. moon that is of ember color (live or glowing coal, fiery red)
Barlas, hero (brave, heroic), combatant, fighter, warrior
Ada, island. 2. city block. 3. ada' lar: the Princes' Islands which is near Istanbul
Atakan
Berk, hard, strong
Ali, lofty, grand, high, noble, sublime. Name of Hz. Ali: Abu Talib's son. Fourth caliph
Polat, Steel. Power, strength, force
Göktürk, an old Turkish nation in Central Asia, in the history it is the first turkish-named state
Serhan, king or wolf, monster
Ege, the Aegean Sea
Utku, victory; triumph
Berkay, A person who is strong and like the moon
Güney, one of the four main directions, South
